[AUDIO LOGO]
[THEME MUSIC]
>> Historical legends from
around the planet speak of two
great civilizations--
Mu and Atlantis-- that rose
to prominence and power
and were completely destroyed
by catastrophes that
are beyond our comprehension.
Megalithic relics aligned
to the ancient sky
provide evidence that these
civilizations harnessed
a knowledge of the
cosmos, mathematics,
and architecture that
completely defies
modern human understanding.
Who taught these
great civilizations
how to manipulate matter and
bend the laws of gravity?
How advanced did
their technology
become before their world ended?
What happened to these
great civilizations?
When the Earth was drastically
changed between roughly 12,800
and 11,600 years ago, in a
chaotic period of time named
the Younger Dryas, blending
science with mythology
provides a geological glimpse
into the ancient record, when
the legends were born,
and the world abruptly
ended for many species
on planet Earth.
Exploring evidence for sunken
cities, lost continents,
cosmic catastrophes,
and prophecies,
we can uncover a time when
Earth's ancient ancestors
nearly disappeared, leaving
only relics from a time
before the end of the world.
The Pacific Rim.
Legendary tales echo
throughout the entire coastline
of the Pacific Ocean
about a civilization
that began roughly
50,000 years ago
and understood the principles
of nature and the elements.
From the tales of the
great sun God, Maui,
to the mysterious past of
the Polynesian islands,
remnants from this
great civilization,
who taught of the
importance of our connection
to the planet and the
stars, are scattered
throughout this
legendary region,
providing clues to a
time when the empire we
have come to know as Mu
was a thriving civilization
in the Pacific.
>> Throughout history, there
have always been references
to an ancient motherland,
a land that pre-existed,
long before civilization
as we know it today.
We find in the oral
traditions of the Indigenous
peoples of the world,
memories and stories
of this ancient land.
All the way from the Aboriginals
in Australia through the Andes
of Southern Peru, Bolivian
Altiplano, all the way
into Tibet and Nepal
and India, and all
through the American
desert Southwest and more.
The story that is told from
this ancient continent of Mu
is the story that predates all
of the other civilizations.
>> Everybody has
heard about Atlantis.
This island continent in the
Atlantic Ocean, obviously.
But there is an equal version
of that in the Pacific Ocean,
and this is the island
continent of Mu.
And there are various cultures
that exist all over the Pacific
that talk about the destruction
of this island continent.
>> Mu or Mu-u, as they tend
to call it for the Pacific
and South America is
a fascinating story.
Because if you see the
story from multiple angles
around the Pacific,
you begin to them
a picture of what
it actually was.
This country, this continent,
or series of islands
was actually the center
of a civilization.
And we have evidence from
the people around the Pacific
that talk about a time when
a great catastrophe inundated
the whole of the Pacific.
There were all kinds of
objects coming out of the sky,
destroying their homeland.
>> There are a number of
cultures that talk about these
events.
On Easter Island,
the natives claim
that they came from a
sunken land that once
had a very advanced culture.
In the Madrid Codex, it talks
about a land that was shaken up
and fell beneath the waters
and was never seen again.
It goes on to tell us that 64
million people died that day.
>> There are legends about
Mu, especially in the Pacific
Northwest, the area around
Mount Shasta, for example,
has amazing stories about a
pre-flood civilization on Mu,
which was very near
the California coast.
What they tell us
in these stories
is that the California
coast originally
extended 2 to 5 miles out
from where it presently is.
And that having foreknowledge
of this impending cataclysm
that there were survivors
that left and came over
to California and settled
in the area around
and even within Mount Shasta.
>> Several relics from this
ancient civilization can be
found throughout
the mighty Pacific.
From the mysterious megaliths
to the tribal cultures
and practices
throughout, many agree
that the ancient
civilization of Mu
influenced countless cultures.
But the question remains--
where was this
legendary motherland?
>> If you just look at
the Pacific from space,
for example, and you compare
it to the rest of the Earth,
there's this unmistakable
idea that there's a big piece
of land missing.
It's like what
you're seeing today,
the little dots of the
islands around the Pacific
are the tops of the
mountains from where
a land mass used to be.
And that certainly is
still in the memory
of a lot of Pacific
Islanders today.
>> My personal belief is that
what we call Mu was ancient
Hawaii.
If you looked at a
topographical map of Hawaii,
and lower the sea level by
400 feet, all of the islands
connect.
>> So there are conflicting
stories about Mu as a landmass.
And once you start piecing
these things together,
you begin to realize
it was a concept.
Mu was an idea that
actually brought together
many cultures and many
fragments together in what was
essentially a group of islands.
So it was more like
an archipelago.
>> Various cultures say that
this is where they came from
originally.
This is where their ancestors
came from many thousands
of years earlier.
And this was said to have
been destroyed in a cataclysm.
>> The inundation is what
essentially made people escape
this landmass and start
spreading the colonization
and the ideas
around the Pacific.
>> Evidence from Tibet sparked
alternative researchers
to explore the validity and
power of this once thriving
civilization in the center of
the Pacific Ocean, known as Mu.
>> The story of Mu begins
in the 1900s with a British
archaeologist named
Sir Marc Aurel Stein,
who was traveling through
Asia, and specifically Tibet,
when he met a Taoist monk.
The Taoist monk
went on to tell him
this incredible story
about the set of caves
high in the cliffs, known as
the caves of a thousand Buddhas.
In this story, the
Taoist monk describes
how they were doing
restoration work
on a number of these caves.
And near cave number 16, they
discovered a hidden chamber
that opened up to a library
that had not been seen
by humans in over 800 years.
As Stein was going
through the library,
he found pieces
of an ancient map
that described the lost
civilizations of Mu
and Atlantis.
It also gave us descriptions
of this volatile time period,
showing inland flooding
throughout North and South
America, showing these
catastrophes that were ongoing
on the Earth at the time.
And this map seems to give us
a snapshot into a lost time
period in history,
showing that the Mu
civilization in this
entire landmass that
had existed in the Pacific
was in the process of being
destroyed.
And this map gives us
a window into the past
to understand this
forgotten civilization
and gives us the proof
that it truly existed.
After Sir Marc Aurel Stein
obtained this ancient map
from the Taoist monk, he
brought it back with him,
along with a number of
other ancient texts.
And that's when he got the
attention of another writer,
James Churchward.
>> One of the most prolific
writers on Mu was James
Churchward.
What Churchward said was
that the survivors of Mu
actually came onto the Asian
continent and are the Uyghurs,
the people that occupy what
is today the extreme West
of China, much persecuted
people, as we know,
that they were actually
the final remnants
of the inhabitants of Mu.
>> James Churchward, really,
was the father of the evidence
and the theories regarding
the civilization of Mu.
And that's where the
story building off
of the discoveries in the Tao's
cave of this map really began.
Because it was when
James Churchward found
some of the evidence
that was being discovered
outside of Mexico City by
a man named William Niven,
who discovered over 100
andesite tablets that were
very mysterious at the time.
It was when James Churchward
got a hold of those rubbings,
of those tablets that the whole
story really came together.
Because according to James
Churchward in his book,
he describes how
the tablets gave
the context of the descriptions
of the civilization of Mu.
Whereas, the map gave the
location and the details
of how it was destroyed.
Coupled together with the
map and this new information,
James Churchward formulated
this entire set of new theories
that we now build off of
for the civilization of Mu
and where it existed
and when it existed.
>> Geologists do acknowledge
that there was a land mass
called Sundaland, an
ancient land mass precisely
in the location in the Pacific
where the ancient traditions
say that this
motherland existed.
This land was exposed during a
time in geologic history, when
the temperatures are much
colder, during the ice ages.
Geologists actually
look at this land bridge
as the route for the
migration from people
from New Guinea, for example,
and New Zealand into Australia.
They were able to go
across these land bridges
because the water
levels were low.
According to Churchward,
there was a continent
that stretched all the
way from what today we
call the Hawaiian islands
down into Easter Island
over into the Indonesian
islands to the West,
if you can imagine
in the Pacific Ocean
a massive continent of
that size in place of what
we see is as water today.
>> In 1864, zoologist Philip
Sclater noticed the presence
of lemur monkey fossils
near Madagascar,
but not in Africa or Australia.
He questioned if there was a
land mass connecting Madagascar
to India that once allowed
these monkeys to migrate
further than we once thought.
This area became
referred to as Lemuria.
Throughout modern history,
Mu has, sometimes, gone
by the name Lemuria.
In the early 1900s, Russian
occultist Helena Blavatsky
studied throughout
the world and wrote
about early human ancestors
named the Lemurians.
Though there are vast
differences between the lives
of ancient humans and how our
modern civilization has been
built, one thing is certain--
divine wisdom comes in many
different disciplines, shapes,
and sizes.
>> So let's take a different
view at some of these things.
Let's look at some
alternate information
as to the origin
of human history,
a different point of view and
why we want to look to these,
let's say, channeled texts to
the information that they have.
Well, when we go back and look
at some of the ancient writings
that we still have today,
they are channeled texts
in one form or another.
They were considered
sacred documents.
And when we look to the
works of Madame Blavatsky,
she tells us that the people
of Mu, Lemuria, Atlantis
were guided by
higher level beings.
And this guidance
came in the form
of telepathic
communication rather than
verbal communication.
And what we find fascinating
is that the little pieces
and parts that come
from the channel
texts of the modern world
and the ancient world
can be validated
and verified through
archaeological evidence.
But what about the
missing pieces?
What about the blanks
that we can't fill in?
Well, that's where
we go to the channel
text that gets those little
pieces and parts that
can be validated.
Then we explore
those texts and go,
oh, this may be the motivations
of how they did things.
This may be why they did things.
This may be how they did things.
>> One of the most popular
channelers in the 20th century
was Edgar Cayce, also known
as "The Sleeping Prophet."
Throughout the
early 1900s, Cayce
performed over 14,000
psychic readings,
speaking at length about
Earth's ancient history.
Then, in the early
1980s, L/L Research
in Louisville,
Kentucky, conducted over
100 channeling sessions with
a consciousness known as Ra.
Ra expressed a knowledge
and understanding
of the universe and
our ancient past
which drastically exceeds
modern scientific understanding.
These powerful
sessions were gathered
into a five-book collection
named, "The Law of One."
>> Now when Ra was speaking
through Carla Rueckert to tell
us about Mu, they tell
us that the people of Mu,
at that time period,
around 50,000 years ago,
they were still
somewhat primitive,
but they had advanced
spiritual distortions.
And these advanced
spiritual distortions
helped them to connect
to higher level beings
that could teach them
about building with stone
and how to create their
culture that they did.
And the culture
that they created
was a helpful,
harmless civilization,
as Ra calls it, that
survived for quite a while
until it finally became
inundated where the land sank.
And the people fled
throughout the world
to far off places, most notably
to South America and North
America, the Polynesian
Islands, Melanesia, New Zealand,
these various places.
And this is what we find butt
up against the works of Madame
Blavatsky who says
the exact same thing
for the exact same time period.
>> The survivors of
Mu where did they go?
That is probably a very big
question and theories abound.
But what I sense
about these people
through different
disciplines, so we
can look through the
discipline of archaeology
through dating systems.
We can look through the
disciplines of spiritualism
with Madame Blavatsky,
for instance.
And we can even
look at disciplines,
like past life regression.
And if we combine
all of those together
to find out some kind
of Holy history, then
the latter suggests that
the survivors were not just
to the locality of the islands
nearby which makes sense,
like the South islands
and Easter Island.
But they went much further
afield and colonized and sent
their civilization and
their understanding
of their texts, their
mathematics and astronomy
to further afield, even
to the Western world.
So I don't see
the survivors just
being in one part of the world.
They went everywhere.
>> As the legendary
myths remind us,
divine intervention has
helped many heroes throughout
their journeys.
Along with the
tales of triumph are
the legends of
absolute destruction,
when these powerful gods
out there, beyond the stars,
began fighting.
The ancient Sumerian text,
the "Enuma Elish," as well as
several other sources,
refer to a previous planet
in our solar system between Mars
and Jupiter that was destroyed
and is now the asteroid belt.
Phaeton, Tiamat, and Maldek
are some of the names
throughout history.
In 1976, the book, "The 12th
Planet," by Zecharia Sitchin
was published.
In this polarizing book, he
refers to this exploded planet
as Nibiru.
>> Sitchin's interpretation
of this exploding planet is
it's very sci-fi.
It's very fanciful, in
some people's opinion.
But what's interesting
about it is
the way he expands our
vision in terms of the way
we look at these ancient myths.
He puts it into
the celestial realm
and puts it into flesh
and blood beings that are
in conflict with one another.
The asteroid belt
is plainly there.
There was a former planet
in our solar system.
And the Sumerian myth
in the "Enuma Elish,"
they're trying to come to
terms with what happened
and presenting a way
of looking at our past.
And Sitchin, when he
comes in, is looking at it
from a technological
perspective.
It's not to say he's wrong.
It's not to say he's right.
It's just an interesting
way of looking at this.
>> We know, definitely,
in mythology that
extraterrestrials were here.
This is not just an invention.
We know it because
they say it themselves.
They say their fathers, the
gods traveled to outer space.
They mentioned
gigantic spaceships.
They mentioned wars.
They mentioned that
they went to Mars,
that they went to the moon.
They definitely
went to outer space.
This is all mentioned
in the old Mahabharata.
>> Another source that we
need to reference to have
an open-minded skepticism when
we look to the ancient world is
Swaruu.
Swaruu of Erra claims to
be a Pleiadian being that
is in orbit around the Earth.
Swaruu described Tiamat as a
mostly water-based planet that
was in orbit around between Mars
and Jupiter, thinking about 80%
the size of Neptune.
So we're talking a very
large water-sized planet
with an advanced civilization
on it-- advanced by our terms.
Well, at the time period,
where all of this was going
on, 13,000-plus years ago, there
was a major conflict between
humanoid species and
reptilian species.
The humanoid species were
aligned with something called
the Galactic Federation,
and the reptilian
had their Orion
Council, the Dracos,
were all fighting
with each other.
One of the pivotal points
that they were in conflict
was around this planet Tiamat.
And as part of this war,
this continuing war,
this huge watery
planet was destroyed,
the result of which is
the asteroid belt that we
know about today.
This caused devastation
through our whole solar system,
including putting
Venus into a closer
orbit towards the sun which
we find in ancient texts
all over the place
telling us that Venus
had a different position.
And now, it became this
fiery super hot planet
where it is now.
And so this destruction, which
we can hardly fathom today,
how do you destroy a planet?
>> In Greek mythology, Tiamat
was renamed as Phaeton,
the son of Helios, suffers
a similar destruction.
There's gods flying
around in chariots,
crashing into the Earth.
It's a very similar
story that opens up
the imagination to thinking
about flesh and blood
extraterrestrial beings
or spiritual beings that
are traveling in
some sort of chariots
of the gods, some kind of
craft that are, somehow, still
impacting the Earth.
And that is an explanation
of our origins.
When you read these
stories about Tiamat
and interpret it as a possible
planetary conflict between two
rival cultures,
you wonder, well,
how could it ultimately
get to that point?
Wouldn't there be a
group, a governing body,
like a galactic federation
that could intervene to prevent
such a terrible occurrence?
And part of the
answer to that is it's
somewhat disconcerting,
when you look at,
even the flood myth on Earth.
The gods who dwell in heaven
and are part of a divine council
that you could interpret
as a galactic federation
knew this cataclysm
that destroyed
an ancient civilization
was going to happen,
and they let it happen anyway.
They, perhaps, couldn't
intervene or perhaps
weren't allowed to intervene
for whatever reason.
And so it's very,
very interesting
to look at this idea of a divine
council or galactic federation
and what their limits
might have been
in terms of saving
a civilization
or actually intervening.
>> The planet Earth
is hurt and was hurt.
We have hundreds of
thousands of craters.
Some of them may be
natural, but others not.
Might be the result
of a catastrophe.
Definitely in old holy
books, the few which exist,
we have the war in heaven.
It is described the gods were
fighting against each other.
With atomic bombs, no way out.
So we have this description.
>> When combining
the myths, legends,
and lore of the ancient
civilization of Mu,
we discover the same
recurring theme--
water was a powerful
element in the destruction
of the motherland.
As scientists
search for evidence
about Earth's violent
history, there's
a powerful piece of the story
that remains unanswered.
>> Well, the
scientific community,
they are asking where
did the ice come from.
They are asking this
question-- where did the water
come from our planet?
And this is a question where
the scientific community
has no answer.
>> So what is believed to have
happened is that the sea levels
rose very, very quickly from a
mysterious event that still is
not well understood
by modern science.
This mysterious event that
caused a tremendous rise
in the sea levels rapidly
burying everything underwater,
submerging everything
underwater.
In a way, that left
only remnants today.
And we see flat top remnants
of these mountaintops,
that if they were
above sea level
would exceed anything that
we see above sea level today.
That's how deep the
water would have
to be to cover this
mysterious continent.
From a geologic
perspective, there
is resistance in
traditional geology
that such a thing could happen
for a number of reasons.
One of the reasons
is the geology
and the activity
around the geology
is based upon computer models.
And the computer models show
that for this kind of event
to happen, so much water would
have to be present so quickly
in such a short period of time
and the upheavals that would be
required on the sea floor to
allow this kind of submerging
of an entire continent are
something that the models
simply cannot account
for at this time.
>> Science holds that
there was never a flood,
but 12,800 years ago, there
was a major cosmic impact.
The object has many names,
one of which is Phaeton.
Phaeton impacted the Earth.
Its remnants are found
in the Southern Ocean,
southeast of Madagascar.
Geologists know there
was a cosmic impact.
You can see that there was
a very dense central core,
so you can see this scrape.
It's 1,000-mile long scrape
emanating from the center
of the impact to where the
central core came to rest.
And it is almost unimaginable.
It completely
changed the planet.
James Churchward, he has some
very interesting paintings
on the destruction of the Mu.
In one of them, it
shows inhabitants being
overcome by a wave of water.
And in another one that
I find most intriguing,
he shows the waters,
but now these waters
have icebergs in them.
When this object hit, it was ice
and some huge icebergs or ice
chunks--
didn't melt initially.
They got coursed
as the courser made
their way around the planet.
Now, I want to know is how
did Churchward know that.
Where did he get
his information?
And does that information
currently exist?
>> Could the area we have come
to know as the mighty Pacific
have once been mostly land.
Roughly 12,900 years ago?
Regardless of the journey, Earth
has become the watery planet
of this majestic solar system.
As alternative
researchers search
beneath the surface
for more evidence
of this ancient
civilization in the Pacific,
the stories survived through
the sacred teachings, practices,
and relics found throughout
this infamous territory known
as Mu, the ancient motherland.